object oriented progrming

progaming paradigm :- is a method or approach to programming that guide how you write and structure your code 


it provide:
    a specific style or think
    rules for organizing code
    technique for solving problems
    pattern of program control flow


common Type of prgming paradigm
    1. Procedural paradigm
    2. OOP paradigm
    3. Functional paradigm





Procedural oriented approach

A complex program divided into small indeoendent and reausable part called functions
each function is written so it can easily work wit other functiond in the program
uou can send data to a function using arguments and the function can send back a result tothe place whre it was called 

Drawbaks
the top-down approach makes to the progaming harder to maintraine
it use the global variable which increase memmory usage is not recomended






OOPs Instruction:-

entity - datatype

OOPs is a programming style where everithing is grouped into objects to make programming easier to build ,understand,and reuse

Advantages of OOP 
    provide a clear structure to programs
    make code to easier to maintain,reuse and debug




Principle of OOPs concepts(pillers of OOPs):-
    1. Class
    2. Object
    3. Encapsulation
    4. Inheritance
    5. Pollymorphisam
    6. Abstraction



    1. Class :-       
----------------------
A class is a user defined entity(data type)that defines the type of data an object can contain and the action it can perform.
A class is a blueprint for creating objects.
A class is like a design or plan tht describes:
    what data an object will have(attributes)
    what actions an object can do(method)
it does not hold real data by itself - it only define the structure

                        Class smart phone
                                |
                                |
                    --------------------------
                    |                         |
                    |                         |

                

    2. Object :-       
----------------------
An Object is created based on that class
An Object is a real-world instance
Holds real data 
Can perform action 
Every object has its own seperate data




-------self is a parameter it refers to the current obnject(instance) of the class



